docs/source/elements/elements.md, before:

# Elements

Links under the GStreamer element name (first column of the table) contain
the description of element properties, in the format generated by
gst-inspect-1.0 utility.

## Inference plugins

| Element        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [gvadetect](./gvadetect.md)      | Performs object detection and *optionally* object classification/segmentation/pose estimation. Inputs: ROIs (regions of interest) or full frame. Output: object bounding box detection along with prediction metadata. The `queue` element must be put directly after the `gvadetect` element in pipeline.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvadetect model=$mDetect device=GPU[CPU,NPU] ! queue ! … OUT<br>                                                           |
| [gvaclassify](./gvaclassify.md)    | Performs object classification/segmentation/pose estimation. Inputs: ROIs or full frame. Output: prediction metadata. The `queue` element must be put directly after the `gvaclassify` element in the pipeline.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvadetect model=$mDetect device=GPU ! queue ! gvaclassify model=$mClassify device=CPU ! queue ! … OUT<br>                                                                                                           |
| [gvainference](./gvainference.md)   | Executes any inference model and outputs raw results. Does not interpret data and does not generate metadata. The `queue` element must be put directly after the `gvainference` element in the pipeline.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvadetect model=$mDetect device=GPU ! queue ! gvainference model=$mHeadPoseEst device=CPU ! queue ! … OUT<br>                                                                                                            |
| [gvatrack](./gvatrack.md)       | Tracks objects across video frames using zero-term or short-term tracking algorithms. Zero-term tracking assigns unique object IDs and requires object detection to run on every frame. Short-term tracking allows for tracking objects between frames, reducing the need to run object detection on each frame.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvadetect model=$mDetect device=GPU ! gvatrack tracking-type=short-term-imageless ! … OUT<br> |
| [gvaaudiodetect](./gvaaudiodetect.md) | Legacy plugin. Performs audio event detection using the `AclNet` model.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! audioresample ! audioconvert ! audio/x-raw … ! audiomixer … ! gvaaudiodetect model=$mAudioDetect ! … OUT<br>
| [gvaaudiotranscribe](./gvaaudiotranscribe.md) | ASR plugin. Performs audio transcription using `Whisper` model.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! audioresample ! audioconvert ! audio/x-raw … ! audiomixer … ! gvaaudiotranscribe model=$mASR device=CPU ! … OUT<br>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| [gvagenai](./gvagenai.md)       | Performs inference using GenAI models. It can be used to generate text descriptions from images or video.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! videoconvert ! gvagenai model=$mGenAI device=GPU ! … OUT<br>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |


## Auxiliary plugins

| Element          | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [gvaattachroi](./gvaattachroi.md)     | Adds user-defined regions of interest to perform inference on (instead of full frame). Example: monitoring road traffic in a city camera feed; splitting large image into smaller pieces, and running inference on each piece (healthcare cell analytics).<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvaattachroi roi=xtl,ytl,xbr,ybr gvadetect inference-region=1 ! … OUT<br> |
| [gvafpscounter](./gvafpscounter.md)    | Measures frames per second across multiple video streams in a single GStreamer process.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvadetect … ! gvafpscounter ! … OUT<br> |
| [gvametaaggregate](./gvametaaggregate.md) | Aggregates inference results from multiple pipeline branches.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! tee name=t t. ! queue ! gvametaaggregate name=a ! gvaclassify … ! gvaclassify … ! gvametaconvert … ! gvametapublish … ! fakesink t. ! queue ! gvadetect … ! a.<br>                                                                                               |
| [gvametaconvert](./gvametaconvert.md)   | Converts the metadata structure to JSON or raw text formats. Can write output to a file.|
| [gvametapublish](./gvametapublish.md)   | Publishes the JSON metadata to MQTT or Kafka message brokers or files.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvadetect model=$mDetect device=GPU … ! gvametaconvert format=json … ! gvametapublish … ! … OUT<br> |
| [gvapython](./gvapython.md)        | Provides a callback to execute user-defined Python functions on every frame. It is used to augment DL Streamer with user-defined algorithms (e.g. metadata conversion, inference post-processing).<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … !  gvaclassify ! gvapython module={gvapython.callback_module.classAge_pp} ! … OUT<br>                                                             |
| [gvarealsense](./gvarealsense.md) | Provides integration with Intel RealSense cameras, enabling video and depth stream capture for use in GStreamer pipelines. |
| [gvawatermark](./gvawatermark.md)     | Overlays the metadata on the video frame to visualize the inference results.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvadetect … ! gvawatermark ! … |
| [gvamotiondetect](./gvamotiondetect.md) | Performs lightweight motion detection on NV12 frames and emits motion ROIs as analytics metadata. Uses VA-API acceleration when VAMemory caps are negotiated, otherwise system-memory path.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! vaapih264dec ! gvamotiondetect confirm-frames=2 motion-threshold=0.08 ! gvawatermark ! … |

<!--hide_directive
:::{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:hidden:

gvadetect
gvaclassify
gvainference
gvatrack
gvaaudiodetect
gvaaudiotranscribe
gvagenai
gvaattachroi
gvafpscounter
gvametaaggregate
gvametaconvert
gvametapublish
gvapython
gvarealsense
gvawatermark
gvamotiondetect
gstelements
:::
hide_directive-->

Commit message:

Add gvafpsthrottle (#547)
Co-authored-by: Tomasz Bujewski <tomasz.bujewski@intel.com>

docs/source/elements/elements.md, after:

# Elements

Links under the GStreamer element name (first column of the table) contain
the description of element properties, in the format generated by
gst-inspect-1.0 utility.

## Inference plugins

| Element        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [gvadetect](./gvadetect.md)      | Performs object detection and *optionally* object classification/segmentation/pose estimation. Inputs: ROIs (regions of interest) or full frame. Output: object bounding box detection along with prediction metadata. The `queue` element must be put directly after the `gvadetect` element in pipeline.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvadetect model=$mDetect device=GPU[CPU,NPU] ! queue ! … OUT<br>                                                           |
| [gvaclassify](./gvaclassify.md)    | Performs object classification/segmentation/pose estimation. Inputs: ROIs or full frame. Output: prediction metadata. The `queue` element must be put directly after the `gvaclassify` element in the pipeline.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvadetect model=$mDetect device=GPU ! queue ! gvaclassify model=$mClassify device=CPU ! queue ! … OUT<br>                                                                                                           |
| [gvainference](./gvainference.md)   | Executes any inference model and outputs raw results. Does not interpret data and does not generate metadata. The `queue` element must be put directly after the `gvainference` element in the pipeline.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvadetect model=$mDetect device=GPU ! queue ! gvainference model=$mHeadPoseEst device=CPU ! queue ! … OUT<br>                                                                                                            |
| [gvatrack](./gvatrack.md)       | Tracks objects across video frames using zero-term or short-term tracking algorithms. Zero-term tracking assigns unique object IDs and requires object detection to run on every frame. Short-term tracking allows for tracking objects between frames, reducing the need to run object detection on each frame.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvadetect model=$mDetect device=GPU ! gvatrack tracking-type=short-term-imageless ! … OUT<br> |
| [gvaaudiodetect](./gvaaudiodetect.md) | Legacy plugin. Performs audio event detection using the `AclNet` model.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! audioresample ! audioconvert ! audio/x-raw … ! audiomixer … ! gvaaudiodetect model=$mAudioDetect ! … OUT<br>
| [gvaaudiotranscribe](./gvaaudiotranscribe.md) | ASR plugin. Performs audio transcription using `Whisper` model.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! audioresample ! audioconvert ! audio/x-raw … ! audiomixer … ! gvaaudiotranscribe model=$mASR device=CPU ! … OUT<br>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| [gvagenai](./gvagenai.md)       | Performs inference using GenAI models. It can be used to generate text descriptions from images or video.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! videoconvert ! gvagenai model=$mGenAI device=GPU ! … OUT<br>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |


## Auxiliary plugins

| Element          | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [gvaattachroi](./gvaattachroi.md)     | Adds user-defined regions of interest to perform inference on (instead of full frame). Example: monitoring road traffic in a city camera feed; splitting large image into smaller pieces, and running inference on each piece (healthcare cell analytics).<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvaattachroi roi=xtl,ytl,xbr,ybr gvadetect inference-region=1 ! … OUT<br> |
| [gvafpscounter](./gvafpscounter.md)    | Measures frames per second across multiple video streams in a single GStreamer process.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvadetect … ! gvafpscounter ! … OUT<br> |
| [gvafpsthrottle](./gvafpsthrottle.md)   | Throttles the framerate of video streams by enforcing a maximum frames-per-second (FPS) rate. Useful for rate limiting in pipelines or for testing at specific processing framerates.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvafpsthrottle target-fps=10 ! … OUT<br> |
| [gvametaaggregate](./gvametaaggregate.md) | Aggregates inference results from multiple pipeline branches.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! tee name=t t. ! queue ! gvametaaggregate name=a ! gvaclassify … ! gvaclassify … ! gvametaconvert … ! gvametapublish … ! fakesink t. ! queue ! gvadetect … ! a.<br>                                                                                               |
| [gvametaconvert](./gvametaconvert.md)   | Converts the metadata structure to JSON or raw text formats. Can write output to a file.|
| [gvametapublish](./gvametapublish.md)   | Publishes the JSON metadata to MQTT or Kafka message brokers or files.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvadetect model=$mDetect device=GPU … ! gvametaconvert format=json … ! gvametapublish … ! … OUT<br> |
| [gvapython](./gvapython.md)        | Provides a callback to execute user-defined Python functions on every frame. It is used to augment DL Streamer with user-defined algorithms (e.g. metadata conversion, inference post-processing).<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … !  gvaclassify ! gvapython module={gvapython.callback_module.classAge_pp} ! … OUT<br>                                                             |
| [gvarealsense](./gvarealsense.md) | Provides integration with Intel RealSense cameras, enabling video and depth stream capture for use in GStreamer pipelines. |
| [gvawatermark](./gvawatermark.md)     | Overlays the metadata on the video frame to visualize the inference results.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! decodebin3 ! gvadetect … ! gvawatermark ! … |
| [gvamotiondetect](./gvamotiondetect.md) | Performs lightweight motion detection on NV12 frames and emits motion ROIs as analytics metadata. Uses VA-API acceleration when VAMemory caps are negotiated, otherwise system-memory path.<br>Example:<br> gst-launch-1.0 … ! vaapih264dec ! gvamotiondetect confirm-frames=2 motion-threshold=0.08 ! gvawatermark ! … |

<!--hide_directive
:::{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:hidden:

gvadetect
gvaclassify
gvainference
gvatrack
gvaaudiodetect
gvaaudiotranscribe
gvagenai
gvaattachroi
gvafpscounter
gvametaaggregate
gvametaconvert
gvametapublish
gvapython
gvarealsense
gvawatermark
gvamotiondetect
gstelements
:::
hide_directive-->
